So first some context.
View controllers are a
centerpiece object of UIKit.
They were introduced
in the very first SDK,
and since then we've been
incrementally augmenting them,
adding new features,
making them better than ever.
And in iOS 5,
we're continuing that tradition,
and today we're going to talk about it.
So we have a few goals for this talk.
We want to talk ultimately about
what view controller containers are.
And when you leave this talk today,
you should intimately know the
difference between a regular content
controller and a container controller.
Most of you probably already do.
Split view controllers,
navigation controllers versus
the controllers you create
to display your own data.
You're going to know how,
and more importantly,
when to implement a custom
UIViewController container.
My colleague Matt Gamble is going
to introduce a brand new container
controller that we've introduced on iOS
5 called the UI Page View Controller.
It has a really great page curl
effect that you guys are going to
love to include in your applications.
Finally, we're going to share some
tips and talk about new API.
So before we actually
get to a quick review,
I'm kind of curious.
How many people in the audience,
just a quick show of hands,
have not used view controllers
in their applications before?
Okay,
so we got an audience full of veterans.
Okay, that's good.
Well,
we're still gonna go through the review.
But we're gonna do it from the point of
view of trying to set the stage for what
view controller containment is all about.
So the first question that I'm sure
all of you know the answer to is,
why do I want to use a
view controller anyway?
And there's really two
quick and good answers.
We developed view controllers at
Apple because we realized there
was a common pattern in many of the
applications that we were developing
and delivering to our customers.
And we abstracted that and made
it available to our third-party
developers as a UI view controller
and their related subclasses.
Using view controllers,
you guys can make high-quality
applications that have the look
and feel of iOS applications
that we all know and love.
Secondly, they're fundamentally reusable.
They're designed in a way that kind
of encapsulates the data and the
view and everything in one nice
bundle that you can take and reuse in
different parts of your application.
In short, you get to write less code,
focus on the code you really care about,
and have it look great.
Okay, let's talk about what
a view controller is.
At the end of the day,
it's just a controller.
I'm sure everyone in this audience,
or mostly everyone in this audience,
is familiar with the model view
controller pattern that pervades COCA.
Well,
a view controller is just a controller.
Forget about the view,
it's just a controller.
It mediates the data that you store
in your model objects with the views
that it presents on the screen.
And these views are complex.
It's not a single view that
a view controller manages.
It's an entire hierarchy of views.
And in fact,
we have documented in the past,
and we still do, I believe,
that you should consider them as managing
an entire screen full of content.
They're somewhat heavyweight objects that
you want to reuse over and over again.
They're often packaged
with their model object.
In fact,
We deliver in other frameworks on iOS
a whole number of view controllers
that you can present from anywhere in
your application and it just works.
So, for example, the new Tweet Compose
View Controller that I believe was demoed
in some of the keynote presentations.
So if you know nothing else
about a view controller,
one thing that you should know
is view controllers are probably
the most social object in UIKit.
They love to connect with each other.
In fact, their rasant detra is to
connect with one another.
They transition on and off
the screen between themselves.
They pop, they push.
That's the view.
That's what the view and view
controller ultimately really means.
OK, I want to talk a little bit
about the statement that they
manage a screen full of content.
In 3.2 and the iPad,
all of a sudden we introduced new
controller objects which seemed to
contain other controller objects that
contained your controller objects
that are no longer full screen.
What gives?
Well, the advice still holds and perhaps
a more technically accurate way of
thinking about it is that your view
controllers should really anticipate
being presented in different ways.
And their view hierarchy should
ultimately be flexible and adjust to it.
It might appear on the left side
of a split view controller or
perhaps in a popover controller
or perhaps even modally.
So I guess a better way of saying
it is that they should be considered
as managing a self-contained unit
of content or presentation unit.
Okay, rewind.
There actually is one view
controller that actually really does
manage a full screen of content.
And that's the root view controller.
Now the root view controller,
we've used the word root
view controller a lot.
And sometimes it can get confusing.
But
The root view controller I'm
talking about is the one which is
a property of the window object,
and it's actually a pretty
important controller object.
There's been some confusion,
and some developers have actually
taken other view controllers'
views and laid them over on top
of the root view controller,
and not good things
happen when you do that.
In particular,
one of the responsibilities of the
root view controller is it knows
how to forward rotation events.
When the device rotates,
it's really the controller that
knows what the presentation
stack is and will forward the
rotation events appropriately.
Okay, so how do you use these?
Basically everyone knows because
nobody raised their hands.
Use subclass ViewController.
You in IB or otherwise programmatically
associate your view controller
with a complex view hierarchy.
You override select API that is
documented in ViewController.
You add your application logic,
mix it all together,
do the provisioning tango, sit back,
and get five stars on the App Store.
Well, I want to call out a couple
of that API that you guys
override for view controllers.
And I'm making a point of these
specific callbacks to view controller,
because these are the callbacks
that the container controllers
actually manage in some sense.
And that's the appearance callbacks,
viewWillAppear, didAppear, didDisappear,
willDisappear,
and the rotation callbacks.
So we're gonna be talking about that a
little bit more as this talk proceeds.
So quick summary.
View controllers are just controllers.
In fact,
they manage an entire view hierarchy,
not a single view.
You don't necessarily need
a view controller for every
view in your view hierarchy.
And in fact,
it's perfectly reasonable to have
other controller objects which are
subordinate to your view controller.
View controllers are all about
presentation and connection
with other view controllers.
They're usually self-contained,
meaning they're packaged
with their model object.
They can be put into different
parts of your application.
And they really connect with
each other and they support the
common iOS application flows that
everybody knows and is familiar with.
So let's talk about where we're
going to go now in this talk,
all the new stuff.
We're going to talk about
the view controller hierarchy
versus the view hierarchy.
And believe me,
it can get a little bit confusing.
We often conflate the two hierarchies.
There I go again.
We're going to talk about three
ways that view controllers get
themselves on and off the screen.
And really,
it kind of sums up all the ways
they get on and off the screen.
We're going to design a
custom container controller.
And we're going to talk about some of
the new and changed API along the way.
So let's get busy.
View controller containers,
a tale of two hierarchies.
So it's so confusing to me when I talk
about this that I decided I was going to
put a legend out there to keep me honest.
So if I'm kind of mixing the terms up,
understand that blue means
view or view hierarchy,
and yellow or gold means I'm talking
about the controller hierarchy,
or I'm trying to make an
association between the two.
A blue arrow is a super
view sub view relationship,
and a gray arrow is a parent-child
view controller relationship.
So armed with that graphical notation,
let's deconstruct a common application's
view controller/view hierarchy.
What we see here is a view hierarchy.
This is what you see on the screen.
The view controllers are
kind of behind the scenes.
They're the puppet masters
that control what's actually
going on in the application.
So that topmost view,
which is in the window,
which happens to be the root
view controller in this case,
is associated with a
split view controller.
And on the left-hand side,
we have a navigation controller,
which happens to be a subview
of the view that's managed
by the split view controller.
And it has its associated yellow box.
Now, the two that I just highlighted,
those are content controllers.
They happen to be contained within
the navigation controller on
the one side and the split view
controller on the other side.
And now you're seeing this kind
of parallel hierarchy here.
Those content controllers are
typically what you guys create.
And up until now,
we didn't really encourage anyone
to create their own content,
I mean, container controllers.
But of course, that's what we're talking
about how to do now.
Now,
there's an implied controller hierarchy
relationship here with these gray arrows.
And you'll notice that there's
a box on the right side that
really doesn't correlate to a
view at all on the left side.
And that's because it's managed
by the navigation controller.
That little button on the left kind of is
a proxy to get you to the view that the
mailbox controller box actually manages.
But it's not part of
the view hierarchies.
But the view controller hierarchy,
it's there.
So the view controller hierarchy both
shadows the view hierarchy that you see,
but it also has some potential
view hierarchies that it's
encoding that aren't there.
So the view controller hierarchy both
shadows the view hierarchy that you see,
but it also has some potential view
hierarchies that it's encoding that
aren't yet present that might be present.
Okay, let's deconstruct it the other way.
So we have this controller hierarchy,
and we're going to show
explicitly the contained
relationships between the views.
I'm going to kind of motor through that.
But you can see there's kind of--
I'm drawing the arrows to emphasize
that there's a super view sub view
kind of tree relationship here.
And that tree relationship is kind
of these nested views that lay out.
And you'll notice that that mailbox view
is kind of orphaned off to the side.
It's not in the window
hierarchy at all yet.
But that's OK.
It's still associated with a view,
which may or may not even
have been created yet.
So we'd like to think
about this abstractly,
and we have this kind of almost
one-to-one relationship between
the view controller hierarchy
and the view hierarchy,
but not quite.
And the reason I like to think
about it this way is because
if I really thought about it,
all of a sudden I'd be lost in the trees.
There's no forest, there's just views
everywhere and forget it.
So let's go back to the more
simple way of thinking about it.
So what should you know about these
two hierarchies now that we've seen how
they kind of relate with one another?
The first thing to kind of digest
is that the container controllers,
the navigation controller,
the split view controller,
they're responsible for the
child-parent relationships.
And you can see this if you look at
the API that we have made that is
currently published and available
for existing container controllers.
So for example,
when I create a navigation controller,
I call in it with a review controller.
And what I've effectively done is I've
created a parent-child relationship
between those controllers when
I initialized the navigation controller.
Similarly, with split view controller.
When I create that,
I can call set view controllers,
and I've established parent-child
relationships again between the left side
controller and the right side controller
and the containing split view controller.
And more dynamically,
as things are running and I'm
pushing and popping view controllers,
assuming that the clicker clicks,
I'm also adding a child relationship,
and if I pop off the
navigation controller,
I'm removing that child relationship.
So somehow that API is able
to create those relationships.
And that's what we need
to enable you guys to do.
So what we have here is kind of a
snippet of the demo app that we're going
to be showing you a little bit later.
It's a relatively simple
view controller hierarchy.
This view hierarchy is on the side.
And we want to talk about what we
need to do to get you to be able to
create API that adds child and parent.
View controller relationships.
So first bit of API.
It's actually kind of simple and obvious.
You basically call add
child view controllers,
array of child controllers,
and remove from parent view controller.
Really straightforward.
You can access what a view controller's
children are via the child controller
view controller's property.
And there's some callbacks
that we make available.
And I'll get a little bit,
I'm going to talk a little bit more about
why those callbacks are interesting.
But at the very least,
if you wanted to know when you
got a parent controller and when
you lost a parent controller,
you can override those.
And of course,
you're going to call super, right?
And
get that information.
Now I want to emphasize
something about the top,
certainly the top two methods.
These are not meant to
be called by anybody.
They're really provided if you are
subclassing view controller and
creating your own custom controller.
And then you're going
to provide some API.
Maybe it's going to be something
like a navigation controller,
push or pop.
And you're going to call those methods
to create that child parent relationship.
I can promise you that bad things
will happen if you call that
bad child view controller on a
controller that you didn't implement.
Because they're not
going to be expecting it.
And all of a sudden,
they're going to have children
that they didn't know they had.
So that can't be good.
Okay, what else should you know?
There's actually consistent and
inconsistent view hierarchies.
And I have dealt firsthand with many
of the inconsistent view hierarchies
that come in reported as bugs.
So let's talk about what an
inconsistent view hierarchy is.
Basically what this picture is showing
is it's showing window hierarchy.
There's one root view
controller that kind of is
kind of owning the show there.
And off to the side,
we have this kind of disconnected
view controller hierarchy
with its associated views.
Maybe it's a nav controller that
got presented and dismissed,
and we're holding a pointer to it.
And then we say, you know what?
I really want to grab the child,
the top view controller
of that nav controller,
and I want to put it into
my root view controller.
So I'm going to reach inside,
grab its view, say add sub view,
and it's good, right?
No problem.
Well, there's a little bit of a problem.
If you kind of look at what we have here,
we have a child view controller that says
its parent is whatever it says there.
I can't read it down there.
And if you look at the right side,
its corresponding view hierarchy,
and you walk up its ancestor views,
you see that there is no such
parent associated with any view.
Well, we don't like that.
And that's an inconsistent hierarchy.
And if you guys are doing
that in your applications,
if you see this exception,
that's exactly what it means.
It means that a view
from a view controller,
let me rephrase that.
The view associated with a view
controller got pulled out and added
directly into the view hierarchy,
and it's pointing to view
controllers that aren't in
that Windows view hierarchy.
So why is that a bad thing?
You know, maybe we should just allow
that and live with it.
Well, it's bad because we rely on those
parent-child controller relationships
to forward those callback methods
that I was speaking about.
In this case, that child kind of may
or may not get callbacks,
which may or may not be a bad thing,
and maybe your application
doesn't care about,
but it also can lead to other
kinds of inconsistencies.
If we end up now pointing to the
same view controller from two
different controller hierarchies,
and now we want to present
one on top of the other,
we just didn't want to deal
with all of that mess and said,
okay, this is an inconsistent state.
Okay, there's one other really
important thing to understand
about the controller hierarchies.
And that is, you should,
if you're implementing a
custom container controller,
you really want to know when the
appearance callbacks are actually made.
And there's oftentimes a
lot of confusion about that.
So let's kind of walk
through it a little bit.
I'm going to create some new
API on my custom container.
I call it Flip to Note.
And basically,
Flip to Note does just that.
It adds a new note controller on top of
this container or content controller,
which happens to be a recipe
because that's the app that
we're going to be extending,
swaps the views out, and all is good.
So the question is, is when in this whole
exchange did viewWillAppear,
viewDidAppear, viewWillDisappear,
viewDidDisappear get called?
And what are the guarantees
that we're making about that?
Okay, first let's get a peek at what
that code might look like.
It's actually relatively simple
and we're going to talk about
some of the new API that's there,
but some of the API we've
already spoken about,
so spoken to.
Add child view controller.
Well, guess what?
View will appear, view did appear,
has nothing to do with
add child view controller.
All that add child view
controller does is it says,
this view controller is a child
of that one and it has nothing
to do with view appearance.
That new call in there that I'm going
to talk about in a bit actually kind of
hides when all of the view will appear,
view did appears happen.
But
The main point I want you to understand
is that when they get called is
associated with when views move
in and out of the window hierarchy.
That doesn't necessarily
mean that you see it.
So there's immediately there's
some cause for confusion there.
You could actually add a
view underneath another view,
you never see it and you'll get
called with viewWillAppear and
viewDidAppear and you'll say what gives,
I don't see anything.
Well now you know.
I mean what it really means is
is that the view has made it
into the Windows view hierarchy.
What are we going to say about
guarantees about all of this?
Well, viewWillAppear, as I said,
it's called before the view is added
into the Windows view hierarchy.
And it's also called before
we lay out the subviews of
that view controller's view.
We never really specified this before,
but this is something we
want to guarantee now.
It kind of doesn't make sense
to say view will appear and have
view will layout subviews kind of
happening before view will appear.
Same
review did appear.
It's called after the views
added to the window hierarchy.
When after?
Well, we're going to be a little
bit kind of imprecise on that.
It might happen after
an animation completes.
It might happen not after
And actually, for custom containers,
that semantic is left up to you.
However, it is going to get called
after layout subviews.
So you got to make sure that that
view controller's view has been laid
out before viewed it appears call.
and view will disappear
and view did disappear.
Basically,
they're called before the view is removed
from window hierarchy and after the view
is removed from the window hierarchy.
You'll all be happy to know that
if you kind of do the logic there,
view will appear,
will be called before view did appear.
All right.
One thing I want to talk a
little bit about here is that
addChildViewController is going to
call willMoveToParentViewController
with self for you.
We already know that's going to happen
because you've made the indication
that you're adding that child.
On the other hand,
after this whole transition occurs,
in the completion handler to this method,
which we're going to talk about,
we make the explicit call to
didMoveToParentViewController to say,
hey, we're done.
You've moved in now.
All is good.
So let's look at that method.
That method is actually
kind of a helper method.
There isn't a lot new there.
If you guys are familiar with
the UIViewAnimationBlock API,
that looks a lot like that API.
The difference is that there's a from
view controller and a to view controller,
which are two sibling children that
share a common parent view controller.
We've also added a couple of
courtesy API calls for you.
Controllers will now get a
view will layout subviews and
a view did layout subviews.
Oftentimes container controllers
really know where their children's
frames are and so forth.
So you can now just set the frame
of your child controllers directly
in your parent controller before
layout subviews is actually called.
That kind of prevents-- yeah,
that's a good thing.
We've gotten a lot of requests for that,
and we heard you.
OK, how do view controllers
get on and off the screen?
Well,
we talked about container controllers.
That's kind of what container
controllers are all about.
By presentation and dismissal,
there's kind of, you guys are familiar
with it as present modal,
dismiss modal.
And by direct view manipulation,
and we talked about
that a little bit too.
And in fact,
container controllers basically
are stylized wrappers around
direct view manipulation.
Okay, so split view controller,
nav controller on the left side, push,
pop.
That's how view controllers,
container controllers
connect one with the other.
So before iOS 5,
we had present modal view controller,
dismiss modal view controller.
We're renaming that,
on iOS 5, we're calling it
Present View Controller Animated
Completion.
And hey, there's a completion handler on
Present and Dismiss View Controller.
Which will be called after view
did appear and all of that.
I think it's specified
in the documentation,
if it isn't.
Email me and I'll tell you what it is.
We changed the name.
We got rid of the modal
because with current context
presentations on the iPad,
it's not always modal.
Sometimes it's just I presented
this out-of-band view controller
and I can still interact with
other parts of the screen.
There's still a modal
presentation style property,
but that API has changed a bit.
So let's deconstruct it and look at
what present and dismiss actually do.
So this is the familiar deconstruction
that I'm going to kind of fly through,
because I think my time
is getting short here.
We set up the parent view
controller relationships.
What I'm really trying to get to is
the call to present view controller,
which will be here any moment now.
Ah, there we go.
So we're going to call
present view controller,
and we're going to call it on the
bottom most leaf child controller there.
So any guesses what the presenting
view controller is there?
If you said the table view controller,
you're wrong.
And it's not the nav controller either.
It actually walks all the way
up to the root view controller.
And that compose sheet is being
presented by that root view controller.
Now, there are ways to control this.
When you do current
context presentations,
we're going to talk about some of those.
Okay, the other way to get view
controllers on and off screen,
direct view manipulation.
So one of the things we showed in
previous SDKs was window add subview,
root view controller view,
and bad things happened with that.
We changed that to root
view controller property,
but we set the stage.
We said, yeah,
views of view controllers are good
for just grabbing and inserting
into the window hierarchy.
So we moved to that way,
and now some of you guys may have
code that does something like this.
I got a view controller.
I take its view.
I do the add subview thing, and...
I get that.
And this is actually is not
an inconsistent hierarchy
because there's no parent.
But what I've ended up doing here
is I have kind of two root view
controllers now kind of going off.
And it's not the best way to do this.
Better is to add the child view
controller relationship directly and
have the parent view controller manage
The direct insertion into the subview.
Because a parent view controller really
knows where the children should go.
Again, it's a case of the children
don't choose their parents.
The parents kind of should
call the shots here.
Okay.
When do I want to create a
custom view controller container?
Well, the real answer is you
probably don't want to.
Or at least you should think
twice about it before you do.
We provide a lot of container controllers
and we're constantly making them
better and we want to make them better.
We want to hear from you
guys how to make them better.
But sometimes there are good reasons.
Sometimes, you know,
the look of our container controller
isn't quite the look that you're
trying to get over to your own users.
Or maybe you want a
custom application flow.
You just want things to move
a little bit differently than
what you get out of the box.
And finally,
if your application actually is doing
this direct view manipulation dance,
you probably want to consider maybe
inserting a container controller in there
somewhere and encapsulating it that way.
So this is kind of a oblique
plug for some new API.
But we have split view
controllers on the iPad.
And one of the biggest requests
we've gotten over time has been,
I want my left side view
controller to appear in portrait.
I don't want the little pop-up button.
And you might think, hey,
that's a good example of when I'm going
to create a custom container controller,
because damn it,
they don't provide that capability.
Well, that might be a good argument,
except in iOS 5, you can now do that on
split view controller.
So that's kind of an example of why...
Think twice before you create your
custom containers and definitely give us
feedback on the controllers that we have.
Okay, I think Chris Parker in a previous
talk talked a little bit about that.
So let's talk about designing a
new app flow in a custom container.
So Matt and I, a few weeks ago,
we were...
I'm trying to figure out
what we should demo at WWDC.
And we decided that what we wanted to do
was show-- was rev the old recipes demo,
but kind of make it an iPad app and
highlight a new application flow.
What we see here is we see a
custom bar that's owned by the
topmost container view controller.
And I can select things on that bar.
I can bring out a browser.
And then I can navigate
between different recipes.
And in this case,
my part of the demo is just
these are just pictures.
And I can move these things in and out.
In this case,
I don't keep a stack of them.
It's just the current one
is the one that's presented.
There's some other things
that this demo does and we're
gonna go through it right now.
So let's have a quick demo
of a custom container,
look at some code.
All right.
So this is the interface definition
of the CVC Flipnote View Controller.
And there's a couple of things I'd
like to point out in the header file.
One is that this is the
API that we've added.
We've added this flip to note,
flip from note, set content controller.
Those API methods are the API that
the content controller exposes
to manipulate the child parent
view controller relationships.
We have a lot of custom views that
set up kind of the Chrome and the
look of this content controller,
including a toolbar and so forth.
And we've implemented it in
a way that we wanted it to be
reusable in different contexts.
So the model object has a
protocol associated with it.
And if any object supports this protocol,
it can use this container controller and
get all the goodness that it provides.
And in fact, that's exactly what
Matt is going to show you.
When I stop speaking.
So let's run the demo in the simulator.
And what you're gonna see here is you see
this content controller on the outside.
I can select different recipes.
I can -- what I really wanted to do is
be able to flip the thing to the side,
write a note about it if I wanted to,
you know, something like that.
Go back.
Ultimately share my
recipes with my friends.
But, hey, what happened there?
So,
I kind of went a little bit quickly,
but basically what happened is
this isn't quite optimal here.
We didn't resynchronize that table
controller with the actual picture.
And the reason that happened is
because we got a viewWillAppear
on the picture controller,
but we didn't do anything about that.
So we're going to change that,
if I can find the viewWillAppear method.
Come on, there it is,
and the view did appear method,
excuse me.
And there's this new API here
that I'm gonna talk about once
I get off this demo thing.
Where when that picture controller's
viewDidAppear is called,
we're going to check whether
or not I'm moving to a parent
view controller or not.
And if I am, I'm going to synchronize the
selection list if I need to.
If I'm not moving into a
new parent view controller,
or if I am moving into a
I don't need to do that because
I'm brand new to the scene.
I'm already synchronized.
I'm there because I was selected.
So let's stop the demo from running.
Run it again.
Show the note.
I don't want to do that.
I need to show content.
Show the note.
Go to Gendersnaps, hide the note,
and now we synchronize back.
So let's talk a little bit
about what was going on here.
Well, first of all,
there's two API methods that we were
doing when we were to flip to note,
which we've seen before,
and flip from note, which is kind of the
inverse of flip to note.
These two methods are very similar to
what push and pop view controller on
the navigation controller method is.
And there's kind of
like a symmetry to them.
You'll notice that in the first one,
when we're popping or we're
removing a controller,
we call will move to parent
view controller with a nil.
Because we don't know that
you're actually doing that yet.
However, when all is said and done
in the completion method,
we call remove from
parent view controller.
And at that point,
we automatically call did move to
parent view controller for you because,
hey, we know you've just moved out
because you've made that call.
The code that I edited,
we're gonna look at in a second.
But what I wanted to do is point
out exactly what's going on here.
When we flip the note,
we've effectively added a child
controller onto the stack.
We've kept the content,
the waffles as it were, underneath.
We've swapped the views.
We're hanging onto the waffle view
because when we pop the thing ultimately,
that waffle view is going back.
Now, is moving to parent view
controllers is an interesting call.
That's what made things resynchronize.
I'm going to talk about it
in terms of the new API here.
Many of you have requested that you
really want to know if a view controller
is appearing because it just got pushed
onto a navigation controller or because
something got popped off the navigation
controller and you're appearing again.
And we needed to come up with a
slightly general way to handle that,
given that now you guys can create
your own container controllers.
So that's what is moving to parent view
controller is actually doing there.
Because depending on how your
content controller is constructed,
you'll see that the patterns in the code,
when you go back and look at it,
because it is sample code,
is such that that is going to return
yes in the appearance callbacks
between view will appear and view
did appear if it is new to the scene.
In other words, if you've just pushed
a view controller onto,
you know,
if you've just added a view controller
onto a navigation controller,
and you've just provided a view
controller child to its parent
and are changing the views out,
that's going to return yes.
And if it's already a child and
you've just removed something and
revealed that view controller again,
it's going to return no.
So it's a way that you can disambiguate
whether or not a view controller
is appearing because something got
pushed on you or popped off you.
The other method is the exact same
thing except it regards disappearing.
Are you disappearing because
something got pushed on you?
Or because you got
popped off of something?
And for completion here,
we've added two sets of parallel methods,
exact same semantic,
except they give you an indication
of when a view controller is being
presented over you or dismissed from you.
Hopefully that's clear.
Now,
I really hope this method scares you.
It scares me a little bit.
And I'm not even going to try to say
it because I can't read it right now.
We wanted to give you
guys an escape hatch,
as it were.
If you're implementing a container
controller and you don't want the
automatic appearance callbacks to happen,
remember, appearance callbacks happen
when views get moved in and
out of the window hierarchy.
And we manage it all
for you automatically.
You don't really have to do a lot.
But sometimes, you know,
that's not what you want.
And you want to manage it yourself.
Maybe you have some really just
incredible animation and you're moving
views in and out of each other and
you just don't want these appearance
callbacks to happen out of your control.
Well, you can override that method,
whose name I can't say, and return no.
And if you do that,
what that means is that you're
responsible for forwarding those
appearance callbacks yourself.
So this is kind of like
idealized code there,
but you could have like done it yourself,
you know, using CA animation,
whatever you want,
and just make sure that you follow the
invariants that aren't too stringent
that I talked about earlier in the talk.
Okay, there's one other thing
I want to demo here.
And then I'm gonna give it over to Matt.
Okay, well,
I don't want to hit that button,
because that button is
Interesting.
Okay,
we have some technical difficulty here.
I'm not gonna show that part of the
demo because we didn't configure
this demo machine to have email.
So I'm gonna talk to it.
Once I click the presentation,
So imagine you saw a demo,
and it was great.
You click the little share button,
and in addition to the tweet,
there was an email.
And we were gonna present the
mail compose sheet modally.
And I think I have some slides
that kinda talk about it.
And basically the code that we're gonna
go through runs something like this.
I could either be sharing from the
note controller that's up there,
or I could be sharing from
the content controller.
And in one case,
I got this full screen presentation,
and it covered the entire screen.
In the other case,
it kind of appeared nicely and
nestled right in the view of the
note or the content controller.
And the other one looks
a little bit better.
So I wanted to show you
how you can affect that.
Now, first of all,
you may be familiar with
current context presentation.
Maybe?
Okay.
You can set the modal presentation
style to be current context,
and I think somewhere in
that code that I can't read,
we're doing that.
And it's effectively we're calling
present view controller in the
exact same way on both the note
controller and the content controller.
And in one case, it goes full screen.
In the other case, it doesn't.
And why is that?
So that's what it
should have looked like,
but it didn't,
because we didn't configure email.
And we were going to click on email,
and we were going to execute that code.
And we were going to basically
make the recipe browser the
presenting view controller.
And it was going to look just like that.
Believe me.
And in the other case--
Other case.
It kind of looked like this.
It walked up just like we
walked up in the previous talk,
and the presenting view controller
became the root view controller again.
So how can you control that?
Well, prior to iOS 5,
there's lots of code that kind of
was going parent view controller,
parent view controller,
parent view controller.
Now you don't have to do that.
Now you can just make a
set a bit effectively,
set a flag in the controller
hierarchy that says you
define presentation context.
And as we walk up an arbitrarily
deep chain of parent-child
view controller relationships,
the first one that has the define
presentation context set is going to
be the one that we present within.
So it's really easy to control
where those presentations occur.
So that's two new bits of API.
One is define presentation context.
You can also, that same controller can
define the transition style.
So it could be, you know, slide up,
cross dissolve, flip.
You can set it yourself, you know,
without having to worry about the code
that's actually doing the presentation.
All right.
One other point I wanted to make,
and I think I missed this,
was that parent view controller,
the semantics of it have changed a bit.
Parent view controller used to return
the presenting view controller,
the presenting modal view controller.
And because of this whole
set of containment changes,
that's no longer true.
When you call parent view controller,
if you've been modally
presented or presented,
parent view controller may very well
return the parent view controller.
And I know there's a lot of code out
there that kind of doesn't expect that.
So you need to be on guard for that.
And if you really need the
presenting view controller,
there's a new API called
presenting view controller that
you guys can use to get that.
All right,
so let's go over what we've learned.
First of all,
use existing containers if you can.
Give us your bugs.
We'll make them better.
That's what we do.
It might be easier to do this if
you realize is that view controllers
manage complex view hierarchies,
and they can, in fact,
have subordinate regular old controllers.
If you need to create a
custom view controller,
do it when you need to.
Do it to define new application flows,
new appearances that you want.
And instead of any
direct view manipulation,
if your app is doing direct
view manipulation like this,
consider refactoring it into
a custom container controller.
This will help future-proof your apps,
if nothing else.
The API is actually beguilingly simple,
but it is a little bit subtle and
you got to get the ordering right and
understand the two different hierarchies.
So I'm going to let
Matt Gamble come on the stage.
He's going to enhance that demo app that
wasn't working so well for me at the end,
but I have faith that he's
going to make it shine.
And he's going to expand a little
bit on the topics that I presented.
Thank you, Bruce.
I'm Matt Gamble, another member of the
UIKit team at Apple,
and I'd like to introduce
a new controller class,
new to iOS 5,
called the UIPageViewController.
Now the UI Page View Controller is
a container controller that
allows you to navigate among
views with a page curl transition.
And this transition can be done either
programmatically or via user gestures.
Now, this is a container view controller,
and it leverages the new containment API.
So it manages child view controllers,
which are the ones actually
presenting your content.
And it also presents these
view controllers in a
prepared application flow,
which in this case is
our page curl transition.
So to get started,
we'll start by initializing an
instance of UIPageViewController.
And we're going to do that with the
initWithTransitionStyleNavigationOrient
ationOptions method.
So for this, for the transition style,
we're going to pass in page curl.
Now the navigation orientation,
if you are doing left
to right transitions,
then you would want to use horizontal.
If you were going to do up and down,
which would be more like the
pages in a wall calendar,
you'd use vertical.
So pass in your navigation orientation.
And then finally,
there's an options dictionary where
you can pass in some different options,
perhaps the most interesting
of which is the spine location.
Now the spine location describes the
line around which these page curls occur.
You can have min or max,
which would be an edge spine location,
in which case the page curls would be
happening about a line that is on one
of the edges of your content area.
So in this case, you'd be seeing one page
of content at a time.
You could also have a mid spine location,
where the spine would be in the middle,
and the pages would be turning about
it in the center of the bounds.
In this case, you'd be using two pages
of content at a time.
So now that we've instantiated our page
view controller and initialized it,
the next step is to set
some initial content.
And so what you're going to do is
just have your application set one or
at most two initial view controllers
on your page view controller.
And you're going to do this with
the set view controllers direction
animated completion method.
Now like Bruce was saying,
this is a container controller.
So it implements the containment API,
but that doesn't mean that you want to be
calling add child view controller or set
child view controllers or any of this new
containment API directly on this class.
So this is the method that you'll
be using to actually pass your
content to the page view controller.
So we'll start by passing in
our array of view controllers.
Again,
if you have an edge spine location,
which would be the min or max,
this would just be one view controller.
But if you had the center spine location,
this would be the two.
We're going to pass it in forward.
Now we're setting our
initial view controller so
we don't need any animation,
pass no.
And again, we probably don't care
about any completion block.
But this method is interesting
as this is also how you would
perform programmatic transitions.
So now, of course,
the direction becomes a
little bit more interesting.
And you're going to want to make
sure to change yes for animated.
And then perhaps pass in a completion
block so that you know exactly
when this animation is finished.
So that handles programmatic
navigation and programmatic
transitions between your content.
But what's more interesting is having
the user drive these transitions.
And to do this,
instead of having our application
set these view controllers,
we're going to have a data source that
implements the UI PageViewController
data source protocol.
And what's going to happen is that
when the user makes a gesture,
the page view controller is then
going to ask that data source via
the two required methods for the
appropriate view controller or view
controllers for that situation.
And it's up to the data source
to make sure to pass these back
to the page view controller.
So that's two of the three pieces of
the structure of a page view controller.
The last piece is the delegate,
which implements the
UIPageViewControllerDelegate protocol.
And this just allows you to do a
little final customization in the
behavior of the page view controller.
So let's get right into using
this and how you would use
this in your applications.
So here we have our
recipe controller object.
This is the view controller whose
responsibility it was to provide
that content in the content
area of the Flipnote controller.
Now I'm going to skip down
to the viewDidLoad method.
And I'm going to start by-- oh,
that's not what we wanted.
And we're going to start by initializing
our instance of page view controller.
We'll determine the
appropriate spine location,
construct our options dictionary.
And in our options dictionary,
we are specifying our spine location key.
And then we pass these into the init
with transition style navigation
orientation options method.
The next part is to set up
the delegate and data source
of the page view controller.
In that case, it's going to be self,
which is this recipe controller.
Now, like Bruce was saying,
it's important to make sure that the
bounds of these controllers are flexible,
because you don't really know what your
presentation context is going to be.
And the page view controller
feels the same way.
So feel free to change the bounds
of the page view controller's
view to whatever makes sense in
the context of your application.
So I'm going to go ahead and set
it to the bounds of this view.
And now I'm going to go about
setting my initial view controllers,
determine which view
controllers I'm using,
and then pass them in with
the set view controllers
direction animated completion.
And again, we're setting the
initial view controllers,
so the animated flag and the completion,
and even the direction,
not that interesting at this point.
Now this class, this recipe controller,
is itself a container controller.
So it's important to
make a few more calls.
We're going to make sure to add
the page view controller as a child
view controller of this container.
And then we're going to add the
page view controller's view as a
subview to this controller's view.
And then finally,
we're going to call didMoveToParent
on the page view controller.
All right,
so let's take a look at what we have now.
So this looks very familiar.
We saw this earlier.
But instead of this being
static content in the middle,
Oh, we now have a nice interactive
page curl transition.
You can see the edge
is tracking the touch.
As I go over and let go, oh,
here we actually get to some
of the meat of our recipe.
I can also navigate by
just tapping on the edges.
And back.
So that's a lot better,
a much better way to present our recipe.
So I'd like to point out a couple things.
First of all,
when I begin this transition,
this gesture within the bounds
of the page view controller,
everything looks great.
I get the animation I'm expecting.
But if I go to this blue area
slightly outside the bounds and begin,
nothing happens.
That's disappointing.
And users don't really have to be
picky about where their touches
are exactly starting or ending.
So it's important to make sure
that this behaves as they'd expect.
So let's return to Xcode and go
back to our recipe controller here.
And I'm going to implement two methods.
The first is viewDidAppear.
And I'm going to take advantage of
the page view controller's array of
gesture recognizers that it vends.
And I'm going to make sure to
add those to the content area
of our parent view controller.
I'll do that in didAppear.
And then viewWillDisappear,
I'll make sure to remove them
as our view is going away.
So let's build and run again and
see if we see some improvement.
So again, within the bounds, works great.
And how about if I start
slightly outside?
All right, that works too.
Much better.
This is particularly important if you
want to embed this page view controller's
view within some of your own Chrome to
get that specific look that you want,
but not want to have the users have to
touch just within that specific bounds.
So one more thing I'd like to
point out in this demo application.
If we are to rotate--I'm going
to just use the key equivalent
to rotate the simulator.
Okay, the same content,
little bit bigger,
dimensions are kind of changed.
But wouldn't it be nice if
instead of just showing this
same single page of content,
since we have this additional
room and landscape,
we could move our spine position to the
middle and show two pages of content
since we have this additional room?
Wow.
Since we set our recipe controller as
the delegate of the page view controller,
we can go ahead and do that.
So I'm going to start by implementing
the page view controller spine location
for interface orientation method.
And this is an optional
method for the delegate.
Start by figuring out what is the
spine location that I want to use
for this particular orientation.
The next step
is to start figuring out what view
controllers I need and taking care of
any calls that are specific to this
orientation or this spine location.
In this case,
when we're doing a spine location min,
which in this demo app is going to
be a spine on the left-hand side,
just showing the single
page of content at a time,
it's important to set double-sided to no.
This value gets implicitly set to
yes if you use a mid-spine location.
So if you're ever transitioning
back to an edge spine location,
and you want to go back to the default
behavior of having the content on the
front showing partially through the back,
you'd want to make sure
to set this back to no.
Now,
what if we have a mid-spine location?
Well, in this case,
we're going to have to be passing
an additional view controller.
Because remember, we're now showing two
pages of content at a time.
So in addition to the
currently selected one,
we also need to figure out what
is the other view controller and
pass these two view controllers
to the page view controller.
And finally, we're going to set those
view controllers in the
setViewControllers.direction.animated.com
pletion method.
Now, you are free to call this method as
well as the double-sided method within
this delegate method's implementation.
Okay, so we have that all set.
Let's take a look and see
how this will work now.
So here's our portrait with
our edge spine location.
If I rotate, all right,
get a nice cross fade to two
pages of content at a time.
If I begin my gesture here,
you'll see it's now curling
about the center line.
So we have this nice double-sided
with mid-spine location.
So let's quickly take a look at
what we learned in that demo.
Well,
there are a few things we knew going in.
We need to initialize our page view
controller with a transition style,
navigation orientation,
and any of the options,
like the spine location.
We need to set our
initial view controllers.
It's also how we drive
programmatic navigation.
And we saw that we can do user-driven--
Navigation by setting our data source
and implementing the required methods.
We also saw that we can customize
the gesture area with the gesture
recognizers and change the spine
location on rotation with the delegate.
A lot of content here today.
It's important to understand
the difference between content
and container view controllers.
Also, you want to think about when to use
custom view controller containers,
to define your custom
application flows or looks,
and probably in place of any
direct manipulation you were
doing with views in the past.
And then leverage our existing container
controllers if at all possible,
like the navigation controller,
tab bar controller,
and now the new UI page view controller.
Thank you so much for coming.
I hope you have a great rest of the week.